The iconic Silverstone Circuit holds a special place in the minds of enthusiasts and automakers from the United Kingdom, so it seems only right that a British manufacturer has just regained control of the Grand Prix track's production car lap record. 
Aston Martin
 has smashed the Silverstone Circuit lap record for production cars with its roadgoing racer, 
the Valkyrie
 — and not by a few tenths of a second, either. 
The Valkyrie posted a lap time of 1:56.42, the first sub-two-minute time by a car made for civilians. This undercuts the previous record, held by a 
Manthey-modified
 
Porsche 911 GT2 RS
, by more than 10 seconds: Manthey's Porsche did it in 2:06.82, though the fight between a carbon monocoque chassis with a 24 Hours of LeMans winner at the wheel and a well-equipped Porsche 911 isn't exactly fair.
View full post on YouTube
The Valkyrie's record makes a mark even beyond the realm of street legality, as the Valkyrie also beat out some GT3 racecar lap times. For example, 
Lamborghini's Huracan GT3 Evo
 managed a time of 1:58.165 on slick tires, while a Formula Renault 2.0 managed to barely beat the Valkyrie at 1:56.052. Notably, Aston's lap time was set on Michelin Pilot Sport Cup 2 tires. (If you're looking for true speed, however, an F1 car makes light work of the GP circuit, zipping around in 1:27.097.) 
The video released by Aston Martin hints at the model's dual personality, starting out with the car on the Silverstone-adjacent roads in England's Northamptonshire region before ending up on track property. After a quick breeze through pit lane, 
the 1139-hp V-12 hybrid
 takes off on its lap record. Aston Martin hasn't released the complete raw onboard footage just yet, but the video shows plenty of Darren Turner, the hands behind the record-breaking lap time, displaying brief segments of his driving prowess via left-foot braking and small angle slides. The hypercar naturally puts up big numbers on the speedometer, too; it hits around 200 mph on the track's Hangar Straight.
Aston Martin
And the Valkyrie could potentially better its record-breaking lap time on another day. There are hints of evaporating precipitation seen in the video, making track conditions less than optimal, and Turner, who was a Formula 1 test driver, said that a motorcycle race a few days prior had left some undesirable rubber in the racing line. 
"The car performed brilliantly. I’m not sure I had anything more to give, but maybe on a day that was kinder with the conditions we could find a few more tenths if not more," 
Turner said in a statement.
 "It blows my mind that this is a road-legal car that you can use to drive to Silverstone and then go faster than the pole lap record in the British GT championship."
Related Stories
New Aston Martin Vanquish Is Savage and Superb
Adrian Newey Joins Aston Martin F1
How Fernando Alonso Made the Valiant Happen
Emmet White
Associate Editor
A New York transplant hailing from the Pacific Northwest, Emmet White has a passion for anything that goes: cars, bicycles, planes, and motorcycles. After learning to ride at 17, Emmet worked in the motorcycle industry before joining Autoweek in 2022 and Road & Track in 2024. The woes of alternate side parking have kept his fleet moderate, with a 2014 Volkswagen Jetta GLI and a BMW 318i E30 street parked in his Queens community.